Production-ready content for MSAL Go (#1)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go: msal-go/design.md

---
title: Microsoft Authentication Library for Go Design Guide
description: "Design guidelines for the Microsoft Authentication Library for Go."
---

# Microsoft Authentication Library for Go Design Guide

> ## General Structure

Reviewer: ## General structure

> Public Surface

Reviewer: Public surface

```

Internals

```bash
apps/
  internal/
    client/ - Shared package for common calls that Public and Confidential apps share
    json/ - Our own json encoder/decoder for special needs
    shared/ - Holds types that need to be in multiple packages and can't be moved into a single one due to import cycles
    requests/ - The pacakge to communicate to services to get tokens
```

### Use of the Go special internal/ directory

In Go, a directory called `internal/` contains packages that should only be used by other packages rooted at the same location. This is covered in the [official Go documentation](https://golang.org/doc/go1.4#internalpackages).

For example, a package `.../a/b/c/internal/d/e/f` can be imported only by code in the directory tree rooted at `.../a/b/c`. It cannot be imported by code in `.../a/b/g` or in any other repository.

We use this feature quite liberally to make clear what is using an internal package.  For example:

```bash
apps/internal/base - Only can be used by packages defined at apps/
apps/internal/base/internal/storage - Only can be use by package client
```

## Public API

> The public API will be encapsulated in `apps/`.  `apps/` has 3 packages of interest to users:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The public API is encapsulated in `apps/`.  `apps/` has 3 packages of interest to users:
```

> - `public/` - This is what MSAL calls the Public Application Client (service client)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `public/` - Covers the Public Application Client. These are apps that run on the user's computer, such as command line interface apps. 
```

> - `confidential/` - This is what MSAL calls the Confidential Application Client (service)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `confidential/` - Covers the Confidential Application Client. These are apps that run on servers - web apps, web APIs which get tokens for users and web APIs which get tokens on behalf of themselves (service to service communication)

- `cache/` - This provides the interfaces that must be implemented to create persistent caches for any MSAL client

## Internals

> In this section we will be talking about `internal/`.

Reviewer: In this section, we will be talking about `internal/`.

### JSON Handling

> JSON must be handled specially in our app. The basics are, if we receive fields that our structs do not contain, we cannot drop them.  We must send them back to the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JSON must be handled specially in our app. The basics are, if we receive fields that our structs do not contain, we cannot drop them, to ensure backwards and future compatibility.
```

> ### JSON Handling

Reviewer: ### JSON handling

To handle that, we use our own custom `json` package that handles this.

### Backend communication

Communication to the backends is done via the `requests/` package. `oauth.Token` is the client for all communication.

`oauth.Token` communicates via REST calls that are encapsulated in the `ops/` client.

> ## Adding A Feature

Reviewer: ## Adding a feature

This is the general way to add a new feature to MSAL:

- Add the REST calls to `ops.REST`
- Add the higher level manipulations to `oauth.Token`
- Add your logic to the `app/\<client\>` and access the services via your `oauth.Token`

## Notable Differences To Other Clients

> ### TBD: Confidential applications needs to handle multiple users without one big cache

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Confidential applications needs to handle multiple users without one big cache
```

> ## Notable Differences To Other Clients

Reviewer: ## Notable differences to other clients

> ### Confidential applications needs to handle multiple users without one big cache

Reviewer: ### Confidential applications need to handle multiple users without one big cache
